From cedric.brun at free.fr  Mon Jul  4 10:58:48 2005
From: cedric.brun at free.fr (cedric.brun at free.fr)
Date: Mon, 04 Jul 2005 10:58:48 +0200
Subject: [Konference-devel] Hi and what about synchronization ?
Message-ID: <1120467528.42c8fa480e128@imp4-q.free.fr>


Hi everybody, I'm starting (for educationnal purpose) a project linked with SIP,
I will probably base it upon Konference, so for the moment I'm working on
documenting the code and understanding it. :)

I'll provide patches about that ;)

I also have a question, how the synchronization between sound and video is
handled in konference ?
Can anybody point me on the source code please ?

Thank you very much !

C?dric


From malte.boehme at rwth-aachen.de  Mon Jul  4 11:11:23 2005
From: malte.boehme at rwth-aachen.de (Malte =?iso-8859-15?q?B=F6hme?=)
Date: Mon, 04 Jul 2005 11:11:23 +0200
Subject: [Konference-devel] Hi and what about synchronization ?
In-Reply-To: <1120467528.42c8fa480e128@imp4-q.free.fr>
References: <1120467528.42c8fa480e128@imp4-q.free.fr>
Message-ID: <200507041111.23233.malte.boehme@rwth-aachen.de>

Hi,

As i said i am working on KCall now for google SoC.
The current design is based on kphone and thus is kind of broken.
the only good thing is the sip-stack from kphone (dissipate2).
the problem is, that the sipstack and audio/rtp/everything is somewhat thight 
integrated with each other.
Our plan is to seperete the SIP-part from the others, so that we can use our 
audio/rtp/codec stuff.
Perhaps you would like to have a look at that sip-stack?
its way more advanced and tested than the code used in konference.
And in the not-so-far future kcall will eventually replace konference anyway.

i think that writing a "wrapper" or change dissipate2 directly to be more 
usable is a great way to learn how sip works.

what do you say?

regards,
maldn

Am Montag 04 Juli 2005 10:58 schrieb cedric.brun at free.fr:
> Hi everybody, I'm starting (for educationnal purpose) a project linked with
> SIP, I will probably base it upon Konference, so for the moment I'm working
> on documenting the code and understanding it. :)
>
> I'll provide patches about that ;)
>
> I also have a question, how the synchronization between sound and video is
> handled in konference ?
> Can anybody point me on the source code please ?
>
> Thank you very much !
>
> C?dric
> _______________________________________________
> Konference-devel mailing list
> Konference-devel at lists.berlios.de
> http://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/konference-devel



From cedric.brun at free.fr  Tue Jul  5 04:18:18 2005
From: cedric.brun at free.fr (cedric.brun at free.fr)
Date: Tue, 05 Jul 2005 04:18:18 +0200
Subject: [Konference-devel] Hi and what about synchronization ?
Message-ID: <1120529898.42c9edea13dd8@imp3-q.free.fr>


Oh yeah..dissipate seems quite nice and already documented..
Then I'll try to use it for my project, I guess bits of code from Konference
will also come in, for example the V4L part and the Arts one..

Is there any repository or website for your currently google Soc project ?

I noticed that Konference displaying (Webcam widget) was a lot slower than gnome
meeting one, have you got a clue about that by chance ?

Thank you taking time to answer me ;)

C?dric



From malte.boehme at rwth-aachen.de  Tue Jul  5 10:39:40 2005
From: malte.boehme at rwth-aachen.de (Malte =?iso-8859-15?q?B=F6hme?=)
Date: Tue, 05 Jul 2005 10:39:40 +0200
Subject: [Konference-devel] Hi and what about synchronization ?
In-Reply-To: <1120529898.42c9edea13dd8@imp3-q.free.fr>
References: <1120529898.42c9edea13dd8@imp3-q.free.fr>
Message-ID: <200507051039.40515.malte.boehme@rwth-aachen.de>

Am Dienstag 05 Juli 2005 04:18 schrieb cedric.brun at free.fr:
> Oh yeah..dissipate seems quite nice and already documented..
> Then I'll try to use it for my project, I guess bits of code from
> Konference will also come in, for example the V4L part and the Arts one..
What kind of project is that? Just to learn SIP?
Like i said, the main problem will be just using dissipate since the whole 
code coming from kphone is very interconnected.

> Is there any repository or website for your currently google Soc project ?
its in kde svn (http://websvn.kde.org/trunk/kdenonbeta/kcall/applet/)

> I noticed that Konference displaying (Webcam widget) was a lot slower than
> gnome meeting one, have you got a clue about that by chance ?
yes, the widget is more a proof-of-concept.
the problem is when you resize the widget the pixmap/buffer gets resized and 
drawn on the screen again.
so even when the data to be displayed is 352x288 you can have a pixmap with 
1024x768 (wich eats lots of memory as you can guess :P)
but i currently donbt have a solution. for the time beeing just use a small 
window :)

> Thank you taking time to answer me ;)
no problem at all.


maldn



From cedric.brun at free.fr  Wed Jul  6 03:17:58 2005
From: cedric.brun at free.fr (cedric.brun at free.fr)
Date: Wed, 06 Jul 2005 03:17:58 +0200
Subject: [Konference-devel] The project I have to do..
Message-ID: <1120612678.42cb314601d3f@imp4-q.free.fr>


In fact I have to do a project for my studies (trainning period), here is te
subject :

http://cedric.brun.free.fr/Chine/sujet de stage/8432.0.SIP-VC
requirements_20050705.pdf
(look, there is a screenshot of what I should do.)

I have to do the client part, ie : a client allowing rooms and multi users.

Do you think that doing a Kpart for a given peer would be a good idea ? Then the
right side of the main window would be a collection of Kpart. Won't this be too
heavy ?

C?dric


From cedric.brun at free.fr  Thu Jul  7 10:07:50 2005
From: cedric.brun at free.fr (cedric.brun at free.fr)
Date: Thu, 07 Jul 2005 10:07:50 +0200
Subject: [Konference-devel] Another question (sorry ^^) about the grabbing part..
Message-ID: <1120723670.42cce2d69bbb1@imp5-q.free.fr>

Hello,
I'm looking in the grabbing code found in ./video/
If I've well understood, the WebcamBase is an abstract class, and then the Image
and the V4L ones are concretes.
The thing I don't manage to understand is the utility of the VideoClient part,
what is it for ? It is a buffer I guess..But is it between the V4L device and
the webcamv4l or between the webcamv4l and the widget or the coder ? Why do we
need that ?

Thank you helping me since now :)

C?dric


From malte.boehme at rwth-aachen.de  Thu Jul  7 10:19:03 2005
From: malte.boehme at rwth-aachen.de (Malte =?iso-8859-15?q?B=F6hme?=)
Date: Thu, 07 Jul 2005 10:19:03 +0200
Subject: [Konference-devel] Another question (sorry ^^) about the grabbing
 part..
In-Reply-To: <1120723670.42cce2d69bbb1@imp5-q.free.fr>
References: <1120723670.42cce2d69bbb1@imp5-q.free.fr>
Message-ID: <200507071019.03347.malte.boehme@rwth-aachen.de>

Am Donnerstag 07 Juli 2005 10:07 schrieb cedric.brun at free.fr:
> Hello,
> I'm looking in the grabbing code found in ./video/
> If I've well understood, the WebcamBase is an abstract class, and then the
> Image and the V4L ones are concretes.
right

> The thing I don't manage to understand is the utility of the VideoClient
> part, what is it for ? It is a buffer I guess..But is it between the V4L
> device and the webcamv4l or between the webcamv4l and the widget or the
> coder ? Why do we need that ?
the client (that is KonferencePart) registers to the webcam.
look at 
m_localWebcamClient = m_webcam->RegisterClient(PIX_FMT_RGBA32, 20/*fps*/, 
this);
found in konference_part.cpp
this line registers a client with the format RGB32 and 20 frames per second.

in startVideo() we do this:
m_txWebcamClient = m_webcam->RegisterClient(PIX_FMT_YUV420P, 5, this);
 that is for the rtp-stack. it receives a YUV420P frame every 1/5 sec.

have a look at the first lines of KonferencePart::customEvent() to see how the 
frames are received and processed.


> Thank you helping me since now :)
no problem :)


maldn



From cedric.brun at free.fr  Tue Jul 26 10:37:34 2005
From: cedric.brun at free.fr (=?iso-8859-1?q?C=E9dric_Brun?=)
Date: Tue, 26 Jul 2005 10:37:34 +0200
Subject: [Konference-devel] About OpenTAPI..
Message-ID: <200507261037.35203.cedric.brun@free.fr>

Hello ,
my software developement is going well, right now I'm writting an MPEG4 coder. 
Other people works with me, and will code the User Agent part. They are 
choosing some closed source librairies, then I'm planning to add (next) 
support to the OpenTAPI you are currently writting in order to remove this 
nasty dependencie. As a consequence, I want my code to fit the more possible 
to this future API.

Is the API already clearly defined? Is there any doc out of the kde svn 
repository ?  What would you advise me to do ?

Thank you very much.

C?dric


